# Opal

## Description

Opal is a content management system designed for web developers who wish to simplify their job whilst having a large portion control over web applications.

## How it works

Developers are given the ability to layout the design of a website with our UI, and code any functionality using our JavaScript API, which aims to simplify the currently used document object model.

When creating a project the developer will be prompted for where they would like to store the data for their project. Here will be stored the configurations for the project, the code written by the developer, and the website code generated by Opal.

Opal interprets all configurations and scripts and generates optimised website code, ready for deployment.

## Build instructions

-   Clone/pull the repository locally
-   Enter the main directory in terminal (the directory including the `README.md`)
-   `npm i` - install dependencies
-   `npm run compile-electron` - compile the electron source code - run this when first installing and when updating the electron source code
-   `npm start` - start the application

## What makes Opal unique

### The common problem

A common problem in the web development industry is that web development can often be a very tedious task to plough through. Building a website properly has become a very time-consuming task and has many often-considered hurdles that slow a developer down from doing what they love - writing "real" code. I realise that many would disagree and state that HTML and CSS are real programming languages, but many would agree that HTML and CSS are nothing but a pain and a chore when building out websites.

In my opinion, HTML and CSS have resulted in a quite frankly shitty JavaScript API, the DOM. Due to this, JavaScript frameworks such as React and Vue have been created in an attempt to make this process easier, and implement HTML into JavaScript itself or vice versa.

Opal completely removes HTML and CSS from the development process, and leaves the developer with just a design tool, and a scripting API. This allows the developer to quickly and easily create beautiful web designs in a matter of minutes, whilst maintaining full control over the functionality and scripting of the website. This also eliminates the need for a design, as the Opal editor substitutes this.

### Flexibility & the Opal API

There are many great CMSs on the market, but as of writing none of these provide the same amount of control and flexibility that you may have writing a website from scratch. Opal provides an easy to use and intuitive JavaScript API, used as a replacement to the old-school DOM. This API eliminates the need to manually find every element before using it, and transforms many tedious tasks into pleasurable ones.

### Well thought-out UI

Opal is designed to give the developer optimal control whilst keeping the UI as simplistic as possible, concealing advanced features for those who need them and minimising intimidation by the editor upon first-time launch. I am not going to sit here and lie to you, there is a steep learning curve to using the editor effectively. This is especially true if you have not written a website from scratch before, as Opal uses a lot of terminology that would be used frequently in the web development industry. Thankfully, Opal provides a free guide to the editor, the API as well as a fully complete documentation on the editor.

### Fast websites

Upon deployment, Opal generates a well optimsied website, generating the minimal website code that is required in order to function as intended. By doing so, websites created with Opal will be just as fast, if not faster than a website created from scratch.

### SEO is down to the developer

Opal provides the option to have great SEO on the developer's website. With the control over page titles, text types and widget names it is the developer's decision in how far they wish to integrate SEO.

### Free & open source

Opal is entirely, 100% free for non commercial use, and is open source. This allows for developers to create great websites at no cost, just as they would with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Elements

### Description

Widgets can be used by developers to add pieces of UI to a website. A widget is a component of a website such as a button or pricing list. Each and every widget consists of its own properties, which can be accessed through the inspector or via the API.

### Typography

#### Textbox

A widget that allows you to add text to your webpage.

##### Properties

**Type** - the type of text that you're adding - this mainly is here for SEO purposes. \
**Text** - the text displayed by the widget \
**Size** - size of the text (in pixels)
**Weight** - weight of the text

### Layout

#### Column

A container that allows widgets to be placed in a vertical order.

### Row

A container that allows widgets to be placed in a horizontal order.

#### Properties

## Future features

### Plugins

There is a possibility that plugins will indeed be supported with Opal, especially as it is open source. Developers will then have the option to create their own plugins and implement their own useful featuers to Opal, being able to share them with the community.
